my name is Michele Nicola and I am
Spanish teacher and heritage Club
coordinator at De La Salle North
Catholic High School in Portland Oregon
my mother laughed hysterically when I
said that I wanted to be a teacher
because growing up that was the last
thing that I wanted to do and I just
kind of kept tugging at this thread and
all of a sudden I'm a teacher and I
couldn't think of doing anything else I
really understood what it's like to live
in the moment and it's my students that
help me do that
they teach me the term heritage
spanish-speakers is a relatively new
term under the broad definition it would
be anyone who has a cultural or
linguistic connection with another
country or culture in the narrow
definition it's someone who grew up
speaking another language at home and
then for whatever reason English or
another language became dominant the
social language versus the academic
language it's some of that academic
language that gets left behind in the
Spanish and so what I try to do in my
class with them is try to fill that gap
even though I know that there are some
things in the classroom that are out of
my control at the end of the day if the
class doesn't go well that's my
responsibility to look at that and to
figure out why I try to as much as
possible let my kids know that I see
them students more or less know how I'm
going to assess them and they know what
the target is it's not about when they
learn it it's it that they learn it I
teach with a method called T PRS which
is teaching proficiency through reading
and storytelling and the basis of that
method is personalization and
comprehensible input how they identify
and we tell stories and we
I have them draw pictures and then we
talk about the pictures that they drew I
use music in the classroom because it
infuses joy into the classroom in a way
that nothing else can so I want to give
them some some practical and some fun
like you know there's this idea that
school shouldn't be fun and I don't know
why not
heritage club is a group of kids who
come together and want to celebrate the
different cultures races that are in
existence and in our community the theme
this year is a lie ship I think mrs.
Nicola encourages us to get out of our
comfort zones and learn about somebody
else's culture that we aren't a part of
or learn more about our culture we do a
lot of work with being allies to each
other and I think she encourages us to
to look past like skin colour and
stereotypes and to really get the know
get to know other people the Heritage
Club affects the school environment
because it gets people talking and there
aren't easy solutions to any of these
problems but if people start talking
about it then people can learn from each
other then people can be influenced by
each other and that's when we start to
see change as a staff at De La Salle we
follow up and we have our own culture
conversations that's our goal is the
ability to connect on multiple levels
with anyone I think my advice to new
teachers is to start doing that work of
getting yourself out of your comfort
zone of getting yourself into somebody
else's reality because we all need those
times when we're with people who are
like us but it's when we're with people
who are not like us that we're really
gonna grow and we're really going to
find out who we fully are
you